README.md, before:

# [LWJGL.org](https://www.lwjgl.org) - The home of Lightweight Java Game Library 3

The website for LWJGL 3.


## Dependencies

Static assets are loaded from LWJGL's CDN ( AWS CloudFront ).

We use [Google Analytics](http://www.google.com/analytics) for tracking.

Build status icons are loaded directly from travis-ci.org.

Other LWJGL subdomains:

- The website for LWJGL 2 can be found [here](https://github.com/LWJGL/lwjgl-www). A static copy of the old LWJGL website is now hosted directly from S3
- The blog is [Ghost](https://ghost.org/).
- The forum is [SMF](http://www.simplemachines.org/).
- The wiki for LWJGL 2 was [MediaWiki](https://www.mediawiki.org/). A static copy of the old LWJGL wiki is now hosted directly from S3.

## Production Requirements

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)
- [PM2](https://github.com/Unitech/pm2) or [forever](https://github.com/foreverjs/forever)

## Development Prerequisites

- **Yarn**
- **Nodemon**

```bash
npm -g i nodemon yarn
```

## App Configuration

Place a JSON file in the root directory named config.json with the following contents.
Additional settings are automatically populated when the project is built for production.

```json
{
  "port": 8080,
  "hostname": "www.lwjgl.org",
  "analytics_tracking_id": "UA-XXXXXXX-X",
  "aws": {
    "accessKeyId": "",
    "secretAccessKey": "",
    "region": "us-east-1"
  }
}
```

AWS credentials are only needed for deploying compiled files to S3 (@see yarn deploy)

## Development

### Build/running in development

1. To install all required npm packages:

```bash
yarn
```

2. To build vendor JS file run:

```bash
yarn vendor
```

3. To start the server in dev mode:

```bash
yarn start
# or
node server
```

For watching and auto-reloading the server we use [nodemon](http://nodemon.io/).

Monitor for /server changes and auto-restart with:

```bash
yarn watch
```

### CLI flags

--nohmr => Disables Hot Module Reloading
--async => Enables async routes
--nocache => Disables Pug view caching *(for testing production)*
--pretty => Pretty prints HTML *(for testing production)*
--s3proxy => Proxies S3 images *(for testing production)*

Flag usage example:

```bash
node server --async
node server --async --nohmr
yarn watch -- --async --nohmr
```

## Production

The website is served via Amazon CloudFront using the server's hostname & port as origin.
SSL Termination happens on the CDN (using a certificate issued by AWS Certificate Manager).

### Build for production

```bash
git pull
yarn
yarn release
```

To run the production build ( in *nix )

```bash
NODE_ENV=production node server
```

or force production with (not recommended)

```bash
node server --production
```

### Run in production with PM2

```bash
cd /path/to/lwjgl3-www
NODE_ENV=production pm2 start server/index.js --name lwjgl
pm2 save
```

or place a process.json file anywhere with the following contents:

```js
{
  apps: [
    {
      name: "lwjgl-site",
      cwd: "/path/to/lwjgl3-www",
      script: "./server/index.js",
      env: {
        "NODE_ENV": "production",
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

and then run:

```bash
pm2 start process.json --only lwjgl-site
pm2 save
```

### Run in production with forever

Place a JSON file named forever.json in the root folder with the following contents:

```json
{
    "uid": "lwjgl",
    "append": true,
    "watch": false,
    "script": "server",
    "sourceDir": "/path/to/lwjgl3-www",
    "args": ["--production"],
    "command": "node"
}
```

and then run:

```bash
forever start forever.json
```

## IDE Setup

We recommend [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the following plugins:

- Babel ES6/ES7
- vscode-flow-ide
- Prettier

Other useful plugins:

- Babelrc
- stylefmt
- EditorConfig for VS Code
- npm
- npm Intellisense
- SCSS IntelliSense
- vscode-icons
- gitignore
- Git History (git log)

We also recommend enabling auto-save onWindowChange for faster HMR (simply Alt/Cmd+Tab). In VSCode add the following in your config:

```json
{
  "files.autoSave": "onWindowChange"
}
```

Commit message:

refactor: Port to styled-components #BREAKING
- extract SCSS as inline styles
- use browserslist in package.json instead of passing profile to
autoprefixer directly
- deprecate aphrodite
- new CLI flag: --css (enables HRM for SCSS files)
- Custom react-redux connect function with pure=false to enable HMR
for connected components
- Use request-promise-native for HTTP requests (async/await in Node 8+)
- Move serve-favicon to production dependencies
- Refactor main.js & mount.jsx
- Disable all=true and add @flow directive in all files
- Enable flow for node_modules
- @media query helper functions
- Hsl class for color manipulation
- Update react-redux flow defs
- Add core.css to deploy script

README.md, after:

# [LWJGL.org](https://www.lwjgl.org) - The home of Lightweight Java Game Library 3

The website for LWJGL 3.


## Dependencies

Static assets are loaded from LWJGL's CDN ( AWS CloudFront ).

We use [Google Analytics](http://www.google.com/analytics) for tracking.

Build status icons are loaded directly from travis-ci.org.

Other LWJGL subdomains:

- The website for LWJGL 2 can be found [here](https://github.com/LWJGL/lwjgl-www). A static copy of the old LWJGL website is now hosted directly from S3
- The blog is [Ghost](https://ghost.org/).
- The forum is [SMF](http://www.simplemachines.org/).
- The wiki for LWJGL 2 was [MediaWiki](https://www.mediawiki.org/). A static copy of the old LWJGL wiki is now hosted directly from S3.

## Production Requirements

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)
- [PM2](https://github.com/Unitech/pm2) or [forever](https://github.com/foreverjs/forever)

## Development Prerequisites

- **Yarn**
- **Nodemon**

```bash
npm -g i nodemon yarn
```

## App Configuration

Place a JSON file in the root directory named config.json with the following contents.
Additional settings are automatically populated when the project is built for production.

```json
{
  "port": 8080,
  "hostname": "www.lwjgl.org",
  "analytics_tracking_id": "UA-XXXXXXX-X",
  "aws": {
    "accessKeyId": "",
    "secretAccessKey": "",
    "region": "us-east-1"
  }
}
```

AWS credentials are only needed for deploying compiled files to S3 (@see yarn deploy)

## Development

### Build/running in development

1. To install all required npm packages:

```bash
yarn
```

2. To build vendor/css files for development run:

```bash
yarn vendor
yarn styles
```

3. To start the server in dev mode:

```bash
node server
# or
yarn start
```

For watching and auto-reloading the server we use [nodemon](http://nodemon.io/).

Monitor for /server changes and auto-restart with:

```bash
yarn watch
```

### CLI flags

--nohmr => Disables Hot Module Reloading (HMR)
--async => Enables async routes
--nocache => Disables Pug view caching *(for testing production)*
--pretty => Pretty prints HTML *(for testing production)*
--s3proxy => Proxies S3 images *(for testing production)*
--css => Enables CSS modules in development mode *(for SCSS HMR)*

Flag usage example:

```bash
node server --css
node server --async --nohmr
yarn watch -- --async --nohmr
```

## Production

The website is served via Amazon CloudFront using the server's hostname & port as origin.
SSL Termination happens on the CDN (using a certificate issued by AWS Certificate Manager).

The production process involves the following steps:

- Compile core SCSS files with webpack ( *sass-loader -> postcss-loader -> css-loader -> ExtractTextPlugin* )
- Compile JS files with webpack ( *babel* ) and store the manifest on disk
- Process the manifest:
  * Read the webpack manifest and compile list of files & routes
  * Process each file with uglify-js
  * Compute hashes of final files
  * Store each production file on disk
  * Generate production manifest that also needs to be shipped
  * Generate & print file size report

### Build for production

```bash
git pull
yarn
yarn release
```

To run the production build (*nix only)

```bash
NODE_ENV=production node server
yarn 
```

you can simulate and run the production build locally:

```bash
# will use production assets on disk
yarn test-production
# will download production assets from S3, only proxies request that pass through Cloudfront
yarn run-production
```

### Run in production with PM2

```bash
cd /path/to/lwjgl3-www
NODE_ENV=production pm2 start server/index.js --name lwjgl
pm2 save
```

or place a process.json file anywhere with the following contents:

```js
{
  apps: [
    {
      name: "lwjgl-site",
      cwd: "/path/to/lwjgl3-www",
      script: "./server/index.js",
      env: {
        "NODE_ENV": "production",
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

and then run:

```bash
pm2 start process.json --only lwjgl-site
pm2 save
```

### Run in production with forever

Place a JSON file named forever.json in the root folder with the following contents:

```json
{
    "uid": "lwjgl",
    "append": true,
    "watch": false,
    "script": "server",
    "sourceDir": "/path/to/lwjgl3-www",
    "args": ["--production"],
    "command": "node"
}
```

and then run:

```bash
forever start forever.json
```

## IDE Setup

We recommend [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the following plugins:

- flow-for-vscode
- Prettier

Other useful plugins:

- npm Intellisense
- SCSS IntelliSense

We also recommend enabling auto-save onWindowChange for faster HMR (simply Alt/Cmd+Tab).
In VSCode add the following in the user settings:

```json
{
  "files.autoSave": "onWindowChange"
}
```
